hi everyone Laszlo Montgomery here
bringing you the next episode of China
history podcast I promise no more
horsing around with meaningless banter
from your humble narrator we're going to
go right into the Chinese history in
this episode we're gonna look at a day
that lives in infamy as one of the
darkest hours of the CCP the Chinese
Communist Party in April of 1927 after
pretending to be BFFs with the CCP junk
Ishak decides to rub them out and purge
the KMT of all Communists and whatever
leftist sympathizers he could get along
the way everybody all these trade
unionists anyone who was out on the
streets are involved in communist
sponsored activities whoever wasn't for
the right wing of the KMT in other words
the time had come to deal with them
decisively events had transpired between
1925 and 1927 that at last was forcing
the hand of the sinister Zhang Kai shek
to choose his fate so today we focus in
on the art fan Gumi Jung Ben
also known in the Chinese history books
as the suey arts Han on the 4-12
anti-revolutionary incident in the 4:12
tragedy of course the KMT have other
names for this moment in history they
might refer to it as the ching dog or
purifying the party or purging the party
in the english history books this
incident is usually known as either the
white terror the 4:12 incident or the
shanghai massacre as the name suggests
it happened on 412 that is April 12 1927
was a year of upheaval in China the
honeymoon if there ever was one
between the left and right wing factions
of the KMT was death
coming to a close and remember there
were communist party members who are
also active in the KMT as well so they
comprised you know the left-wing of
course it's more than just Jian kai-shek
who doesn't like the CCP and all their
rabble-rousing the elites of Chinese
society as well as the leaders of
Commerce and Industry they too saw
nothing worth liking or admiring of the
Communists the CCP they were great
organizers they had their way of coming
up with a plan fanning out into the
community using the old Chinese gwenci
system to spread the word get their
leaflets out pamphlets into the populace
and when they wanted to organize a
strike hey this was totally no big deal
for them so whether you were a captain
of industry or had a membership and any
number of guilds or just a small
businessman running a little production
operation the last thing you wanted was
someone organizing labor on you all the
organizing going on right under their
noses
scared the capitalist class down to
their bones and the fate that befell
their counterparts in Russia after the
Bolsheviks took over was well known to
everyone and by this time there was
plenty of revenge taking and brutality
going on out in the countryside as the
Communists recruited peasants to their
cause and allowed them to turn on their
former landlord masters and these
stories they all made their way back to
Shanghai everybody knew and so our
little story begins let's first look at
the events that led up to this defining
moment in Chinese history when a line
was drawn in the sand and the KMT and
CCP became blood enemies to the death
well they're talking to each other now
of course in the 21st century but back
in the mid 1920s and certainly after the
Shanghai massacre there was no love lost
between these two bitter rivals this was
one of the greatest acts of secret
betrayal and the cast of characters
involved at the highest level work right
out of Hollywood
casting you had well three main groups
involved there was junk Ishak of course
the military strongman he was the spider
in the center of this web of intrigue
the next group who was knee-deep in the
events leading up to the massacre was
the Shanghai underworld led by pockmark
Wong Wong Jing Wang and his very capable
and devious second-in-command big ears
do do you shun the third group who
formed this troika was none other than
the song family who represented the
capitalist banking and industrial class
we're gonna do a whole series of
podcasts one day on this amazing family
you'll recall from an earlier podcast
CHP 41 the Ching dynasty part 7 one of
the early finance seers of Sun yat-sen's
mission was a successful businessman and
Bible printer and salesman Charlie's
song song Joshu he had six kids four of
which went on to carve a rock solid
place for themselves in the annals of
modern Chinese history these four kids
were TV song-song Sivan and his three
sisters Eileen
chingling and mei-ling these were the
three sisters who were immortalized by
the saying that one love money one loved
power and one love China sone Eiling she
was the one who loved money and she was
married to the richest guy in China HH
comme the one who loved power that was
Sol mei-ling who we know as Madame
Chiang kai-shek and the one who loved
China of course was the immortal song
Ching Ling who is better known in the
West as Madame Sun yat-sen so like the
Miller sisters of these times we live in
today the song sisters they married
rather well though I suppose you could
say the opposite and marrying the song
sisters had opened up a lot of doors for
their spouses John's son and HH comb
this was one fascinating group of care
and we'll circle back one day and look
at them all as each one played no small
role in China's history especially in
the first half of the 20th century so
let's look at the dynamic that sorta
shaped how things ultimately unfolded as
I mentioned the Communists were
extremely effective and they were doing
all this organizing right under the
noses of everyone in Shanghai and this
wasn't being too well-received by
everyone who knew what was in store for
them if things got out of hand
so the moneyed class of which the song
family was part of they needed to nip
this problem in the bud before it
spiraled out of control so these people
they had a lot of money but they didn't
have any muscle power and that's where
Jung kai-shek came in the rich
capitalists and everyone who had
something to lose if the Communists were
successful in establishing a Soviet
government in Shanghai they needed a
proxy to do their dirty work and no
better proxy existed in the region than
the Green gang the Ching bong these were
some badass dudes they controlled all
the Vice in Shanghai opium booze
prostitution gambling murder-for-hire
kidnapping extortion you name it
pockmark Wong was the Godfather he was
actually chief of officially Chief of
Detectives in the French part of the
International Settlement he was in
cahoots with the French and you know
made sure all the brothels were filled
with prostitutes it was plenty of opium
to go around and nothing got out of
control and everyone got fat off the
vices of the common man it was pockmark
Wong's wife who brought Dugas young
together with her husband and sort of
brought him into the organization they
may or may not have been having an
affair don't know that but anyway she
brought him in big ears do he was one
shady powerful character who lived a
life
Debow Cherie murder depravity all of the
highest order
he was big-time opium addict to boot so
as I said it was one Jean Ron's wife
that's pockmark Wong who brought the two
kindred spirits together in the first
place and Huang makes do his main man to
handle all the opium logistics in the
area this is Shanghai in the early 1920s
okay let's look at the fabled story
about how big ears do do us young
attained supremacy in the green game now
you all know it's no secret it's going
to be the green gang who does all the
heavy lifting for John kai-shek on April
12th when the massacre is lodged so this
is the back story about how they sort of
became part of the plan and big ears do
he was a capo de Capo's at the time of
the massacre the top dog in the whole
organization and the stories about big
ears do are legendary and unforgettable
this guy always traveled with quite an
entourage as I said he started off as
one of pockmark Wong's boys and because
of a well-earned reputation and a
network of fellow criminals and lowlifes
he developed over a career began in his
early teens big ears rises fast in the
organization then one day 1924 an
incident happens that puts him on top
and knocks pockmark Wong down a notch
now 1924 Shanghai is still firmly in the
control of the Warlord's in this case
the warlord Liu Yunshan now he got
booted out later in the year but when
this incident took place he's still the
man
there was this popular Opera House where
a Chinese opera was performed it was a
you know just a local night spot it was
called the GU multi theater and it was
owned by pop mark Wong as a sort of
palace for his favorite singer Liu
launched one to perform it was a you
know popular night spot back in the day
so one may both Liu Xiao Jia the
son of the warlord Liu Yunshan and Wan
Ching wrong they're both in attendance
watching the performance
now as the story goes about midway
through the performance for one reason
or another Liu Xiao Jia the Warlord's
son he starts booing the sender and
creating a big old-fashioned disturbance
right inside the theater and Hwang Jini
wrong he didn't he didn't like this and
he had his people make quick work of Liu
you know pushed and shoved and beat up
and you know treated shabbily by the
thugs under Wong's control
so naturally the warlord being the alpha
male of the whole pyramid that made up
the Shanghai power structure at the time
he had to do something to avenge how you
know his own flesh and blood was treated
after all he controlled the military and
he at the show this criminal who still
ran things so the warlord anxious to
restore his prestige engineers an act of
revenge and he used his henchman Fung
lien the military governor of Shanghai
and people in the military to arrange
for pockmark Wong to be kidnapped you
know a couple days later in the same
theater watching the same performance so
right there in the middle of it all Wong
is audaciously kidnapped in his own Club
and bundled away to a secret location
and of course you know manhandled and
now the warlord liu yung's on his faces
restored but Quan Jean wrong was no
ordinary guy and this was all just a
chess match pinning one power center
against another and thus entered to
young good old big airs do he's going to
come to his benefactors rescue but at a
great price what happens is he cuts a
deal with Lou young Chang that gets Wong
sprung from his predicament but from
that point forward Quan takes a back
seat and too young is now the undisputed
king of the Shanghai underworld
stretching the entirety of the Yangtze
River Delta region and then some
rather than commit suicide by going
head-to-head against the Warlord's
military might do used his connections
to simply buy them off do young's power
base was in a lot of things but it was
in the opium racket that he had his
greatest power and influence he brought
together the ten biggest players in the
opium business all cantonese businessmen
and convinced them to join together and
pool their economic resources to buy off
not only the military machine of the
warlord
Lou young Chang and his henchmen who
Fung lien but also the French as well
because all this was going on in the
French Concession of the International
Settlement and this is where most of the
action was as far as the Weisse business
was concerned this was a stroke of
genius because not only did it lead to
the release of pockmark Wong it also
forged an alliance between doos green
gang of which he was now the undisputed
leader and the military so anybody who
messed with the green gang also messed
with the warlord military man Lou young
Chang everyone along the chain of
command got their cut and that's how
everything worked out until the Japanese
came along and had ruined this perfect
little world by invading Shanghai but
that's much much later for now Shanghai
was the most exciting sin filled
commercially bustling city on the planet
now this was not lost on a guy like John
kai-shek from this lesson he learned the
political value of sharing a bed with
the big criminal bosses and the
usefulness of all those who made up the
criminal fringe for the better part of
1924 that was endless fighting going on
in Shanghai the three big factions
slugging it out in China at this time
were Lou young Chang and his Jung
soo-jung fashion also known as the on
quake Lake these are the two rich
provinces north and south of each other
with Shanghai right smack dab in the
middle even to this day Shanghai does
not belong to any one province Shanghai
is too big too rich
and too complicated to belong to a mayor
province Shanghai is one of the four
municipalities in China that report
directly to the central government in
Beijing the other three are well Beijing
of course in Tanjung with the city of
Chongqing and Sichuan province now a
municipality and its own right and no
longer a part of citron politically the
second big faction was the Jurlique Lake
led by whoop a foo and Swint want on the
forces of the Jurlique lake they booted
Lu out of Shanghai and sometime in
October 24 Lu was defeated and then he
sought refuge in Japan
the third big power center was still the
mighty Manchurian warlord jong-chul in
sirens and danger signals started
blasting in his world once he saw the
success of his nemesis the Cheerilee
faction so jauntily and he attacked
their forces in the north but just when
it looked like gentle Lin was going to
go down in defeat to the forces of the
Cheerilee faction along comes the
Christian warlord fungus young to his
rescue and he defeats the forces of the
Cheerilee clique and he now occupies
Beijing on October 23rd 1924 fungus
young and his extraordinary life will be
a topic for a future podcast so now that
this nasty business is all settled it's
safe for Lou young Chung to come back
from Japan and that's exactly what he
does and things resume in Shanghai like
they did before and everyone lived well
raking in profits from the extremely
lucrative opium business and this folks
was the golden age of opium smoking and
the entire opium culture of Shanghai now
that the French authorities the military
and the whole police infrastructure were
in on the racket it thrived openly and
it was a very captivating world and
filled with every imaginable sin all
seven plus a few that probably didn't
even make it into the Bible and I guess
this is what is so captivating I read
that about 1 in 12 houses in Shanghai
was a brothel
that time and one out of every 130
residents of Shanghai was a prostitute
and more than half of those worked for
the green game and now in 1926 1927 with
all these puritanical communists
threatening to bring this whole cozy
arrangement down someone had to act it
was in the self-interest of way too many
people to allow the Communists any
modicum of success as long as they kept
all their rabble-rousing to a minimum
these powers that be these established
gentry military and commercial elites
and their minions the educated class who
had money all these guys they all had a
dog in the race and it was to their
advantage to suppress the Communists
everywhere they could so in order to
keep everything going the way it was
whatever could diminish the influence of
the Communists
there was a dedicated loyal built-in
power base with boatloads of money ready
willing and able to preserve the
established order so where were we
before I sidetracked you all with the
story of the rise of do young young
kai-shek he launched the northern
expedition July 9th 1926 the NRA
national revolutionary army they depart
guangdong and head north and then east
they meet with great success and now
rather than go in for the kill and face
off against the northern warlords and
that ultimate confrontation against the
mighty chung toll in young sets his
sights on Shanghai instead the warlord
Swint Wan Fong is now controlling
Shanghai along with of course their
partner in crime the green gang the
green gang had very successfully
infiltrated Communist Party cells in and
around Shanghai so they knew totally
everything that was going on the KMT and
CCP were still at least outwardly blood
brothers in the KMT remember the
Comintern said it was okay to be both a
member of the CCP and KMT and at this
point in history
one Qing way was the head of the party
Wang Jingwei if you recall from the
previous episode where we discussed
China right after the formation of the
CCP in 1921 he was in no way
conservative Wang was a full-blown man
of the people type and firmly in the
left-wing faction of the KMT and this if
you were a right-winger of the KMT of
which john kai-shek was the de facto
leader that was you might as well be a
living breathing full-blown communist
and and these guys they had to go
everyone agreed and they had to start
with Wang Jingwei now if you recall from
that podcast number 52 Jung had already
made an audacious move against the CCP
in March of 1926 down in Canton this
really shook things up and ever since
then the KMT and CCP were always both
looking over their shoulders at each
other
but with their Russian benefactors
controlling the purse strings they
continued to both reluctantly get along
with each other now with such quick
success in the early phase of the
northern expedition jung and his
conservative KMT right-wing forces saw
they had the liberal elements of the KMT
and you know partnering with the CCP
essentially they were in charge wherever
victory over the Warlord's had been
achieved and this was in Hunan will Hahn
of course plus Jang Shifu gen on the
coast and this was very disturbing to
Zhang Kai shek and on January 3rd 1927
there was a big uprising in Wuhan
organized by who else but the great CCP
organizers themselves this uprising saw
the British sort of unceremoniously
bounced out of their position of power
in Wuhan and at this great treaty port
that went back to the opium or days the
British were forced to bolt and the KMT
CCP forces you know all hooted and
hollered and enjoyed this great symbolic
victory over imperialism then two months
later to the day
on March 3rd 1927 after two unsuccessful
attempts the Communists along with
left-wing KMT elements launched an
uprising that defeated the forces of the
warlord Swint Wang Fang in Shanghai um
with this the Nationalists led army
later marched in and took Shanghai by
the way credited with this successful
victory over the Shanghai warlord was
one of the greatest men in Chinese
modern history none other than the
immortal premier himself Joe Enlai once
he took over towards the end of 1926 he
got things in order and it was under his
conductors baton that the CCP forged
this victory in Shanghai ok so now we
have the CCP and left-wing KMT people in
charge of the big cities around China
you see Joe and Lai responsible for
engineering this great general strike
and uprising which rid Shanghai of the
Warlord's and put political control of
the city in leftist hands for this brief
moment Joe was the man in charge and
Shanghai had been a non-stop hotbed of
organizing labor in the work all kinds
of nasty stuff going on pitting
organized labor against the
industrialist and vice versa and nobody
was giving an inch
you know Wuhan was Wuhan Changsha nan
Chiang even Nanjing those places there
was one thing but Shanghai whoa that was
a totally different chest of tea this
was the commercial center of China and
the profits that oozed that gushed out
of this region it boggled the mind so
nobody wanted to see this messed with
and now fresh on the heels of such good
success against the warlord Swint Wan
Tong now the CCP they wanted a bigger
cut of the action as far as who was in
charge of things in Shanghai so at last
in these waning days of March 1927 the
time came for Chiang kai-shek
fish or cut bait if the KMT lost control
of Shanghai then forget it there would
be no stopping the Communists the stakes
were huge at this point Jung now
controlled Shanghai militarily
everyone knew there was gonna be some
sort of bloody showdown and Stalin was
you know without whose thousands of
miles away you know acting like the
puppet master using all the available
intelligence at the time to you know
decide how to provoke and medal and you
know this now very explosive situation
and then as I mentioned in the last
episode there wasn't incident on April
6th up in Beijing where Chang totally in
the warlord you know who's still up
charge you know he's still in charge up
in the north he went and ransacked the
Soviet delegation and arrested and
murdered 20 Chinese Communists including
Lee Cho during the lead-up to the date
the Shanghai Massacre formally began the
foreign powers namely Japanese and
British he had been boldly lashing out
at communists and leftists and anyone
who fit the category these were indeed
dark times for the Communist Party of
China they were they were almost done in
here and then at precisely 4:00 a.m. on
the morning of April 12th 1927 there was
a blast from a bugle outside a residence
and what is today you a young mu young
rode in Shanghai this call to arms was
matched by sirens that blasted from
gunboats anchored offshore from the Bund
that gave the signal to attack so who
attacked this was where the green gang
had come in do us young had successfully
and cleverly legitimized his whole
operation by forging this alliance from
hell with both the military and
political and commercial elements that
controlled Shanghai everyone needed
everyone it was the perfect symbiotic
relationship Zhang Kai shek was sworn in
blood to work as a brother two big ears
do their fates were intertwined going
way back and by 1927 you
not see where one began and the other
left off and all along cementing the
bond and fertilizing the relationship
were the songs particularly sung i ling
again married to HH cone the richest man
in China at the time who claimed his
ancestry all the way to cones a himself
the Great Sage Confucius all we're
beholdin to do get hung and head made
all these secret agreements with them
because he was willing to do all their
dirty work he was willing to Massacre
these Communists and perceived
troublemakers in a huge sum of money was
extorted from the capitalist class to
buy them insurance against a potential
communist takeover of Shanghai and a
piece of this went to Chiang kai-shek
but the lion's share went to do us young
you know all this energy and goodwill
and best intentions and dreams for China
that had finally taken form after the
may 4th movement in 1919 it really
invigorated the nation and the people
but now in the mid 1920s mmm everything
had simply gone too far you know the
Bolshevik Revolution in October 1917
that changed everything that was the
9/11 of its day you know looking at it
from my Amero centric viewpoint it
changed everything and when the energy
boiled over and liberals wanted a bigger
piece of the pie and then suddenly these
democratic and socialist ideas that
sounded ok back in the day well in 1927
wasn't so appealing so big air doo doo
yes young leader of the green gang that
controlled all organized crime in the
region just like the brown shirts did in
nazi germany had his men fan out across
the city and they knew where everyone
slapped who worked where where were all
the offices meeting places secret cells
you name it their Intel was top-notch
and elaborate plans were crafted that
allowed all the goons from the green
gang to strike everywhere simultaneously
stealthily and with
complete and utter surprise and the
massacre that ensued was carried out
with surgical precision and machine guns
blasted away until after lunch that day
and by the end of the day on April 12th
well no one knows for sure how many died
but let's just say do yes young
thoroughly did his job by the next
morning barring any unforeseen events
there was no longer any need to fare
anything about any communists in
Shanghai for at least the near turn the
story of Joann lies escaped from the
clutches of the green gang goons is one
of the great stories of survival you can
imagine being the figurehead leader of
the leftist faction and control of
Shanghai you know Joe and Lai was a
pretty high-profile target but he
cheated death a couple times before he
was able to make his getaway and of
course he lives on to fight another day
and then goes on to play a role in
shaping world history later on one of
the most amazing world figures from
history anyway I won't go into the gory
details but suffice to say the deed was
done and what followed the massacre on
April 12 1927 was known as the white
terror as you could well imagine there
was a great deal of mopping up to do
there were plenty of communists like Joe
and lime out sadang and many others who
escaped the terror and regrouped in
safer areas in the aftermath of the
massacre Zhang Kai shek was the
undisputed top guy in China but the deep
dirty secret was that he was in a way
just one of the young spawns a new
Nationalist government was set up in
Nanjing obviously with all this bad
blood you know that put the kibosh on
cooperation between the KMT and the
Communists as well as with the Soviets
that was that was over for good now
lunging way he just sort of evaporated
and with that so did the Wuhan
government that never really caught any
traction since the day
was set up then in june 1928 the last of
the warlords was history and in December
of the previous year Chiang kai-shek
married Hong mei-ling
Madame Chiang kai-shek who incidentally
died peacefully in her sleep in New York
City eight years ago at the age of 105
and as for all those communist leaders
who had all along preached for
cooperation with the Soviets and
promoting that the whole idea of this
KMT CCP alliance they were all disgraced
and marginalized and never made a
comeback among this group was none other
than the CCP co-founder Chen do show
probably about 300,000 people at the end
of the day got caught up in the violence
the purges the witch hunts this was all
over China not just in Shanghai of
course and to put everything in quick
perspective well
the Communists who survived the massacre
and the white terror they all escaped to
the mountains of Jiang Shi and elsewhere
to regroup and then in 1934 we have the
long march and then Japan invades China
and then we have World War two followed
by the Chinese Civil War and then
ultimately the founding of the CCP and
then the Beijing Olympics and I urge you
all if you're interested to hear more
about the details about what transpired
in China between liberation in 1949 and
the 2008 Beijing Olympics join me next
week if you dare for another exciting
episode of the China history podcast
this is Laszlo Montgomery signing off
from a baking hot bone-dry Claremont
California it's 104 degrees outside
folks yeah you heard that right 40
Celsius wherever you are I hope you're
all keeping cool and enjoying the last
weeks of the summer of 2011 take care
I'll see you next week